10/01 - AWS Cloud Control Provider - Launch Blog (#12982)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/pulumi-aws-cloudcontrol-provider/index.md

---
title: "Announcing the General Availability of Pulumi’s AWS Cloud Control Provider (formerly AWS Native) "
allow_long_title: true
date: 2024-04-25T09:00:00-07:00
draft: false
meta_desc: >-
    Pulumi announces the GA of its AWS Cloud Control Provider, offering Day 1 support for new AWS features and enhancing cloud management tools.
meta_image: 
authors:
    - tejitha-raju
    - matt-jeffryes
tags:
    - aws 
    - provider 
    - cloudcontrol 
---

> We're excited to announce the general availability of the new [AWS Cloud Control Provider] for Pulumi, previously AWS Native. AWS is one of the most-used cloud providers across the Pulumi ecosystem, and with this launch, we are focused on delivering Day 1 availability and faster access to new AWS capabilities to all Pulumi users. As part of this launch, we are also renaming the provider from “AWS Native” to "AWS Cloud Control Provider," based on customer feedback during the preview phase, to provide users with a broader range of advanced cloud management tools exposed by the AWS Cloud Control API. This provider includes the following features and benefits, 

Reviewer: Some possible small wording tweaks (I'm mostly just trying to avoid "with this launch, we are focused on delivering"; as a user I'm not really so interested in launches and "focus" as I am on commitments and capabilities.)

```suggestion
We're excited to announce the general availability of the new [AWS Cloud Control Provider] for Pulumi (previously "AWS Native"). AWS is one of the most-used cloud providers across the Pulumi ecosystem, and we are committed to providing the fastest possible access to new AWS capabilities to all Pulumi users. This provider delivers on that promise by providing native support for all resources in the AWS Cloud Control APIs. As part of this launch, we are also renaming the provider from “AWS Native” to "AWS Cloud Control Provider," based on customer feedback during the preview phase, to provide users with a broader range of advanced cloud management tools exposed by the AWS Cloud Control API. This provider includes the following features and benefits, 
```

* __Extended support for third-party resources__: Our platform offers enhanced flexibility and interoperability by supporting third-party resources available in the CloudFormation Registry, such as Atlassian, MongoDB, Datadog, and more.
* __Easy CloudFormation to Pulumi Migration__: [cf2pulumi](https://www.pulumi.com/cf2pulumi/) provides the ability to migrate existing CloudFormation templates into Pulumi programs in your favorite language. 

At Pulumi, we're dedicated to empowering our customers with the tools they need to innovate and thrive in the cloud. The launch of the AWS Cloud Control Provider represents our unwavering commitment to providing best-in-class solutions that simplify cloud management, streamline operations, and drive business success. The Pulumi AWS Cloud Control Provider can be used side-by-side with the standard  Pulumi AWS provider and nearly 200  additional Pulumi resource providers that cover a wide variety of cloud and SaaS platforms.  

## Using Pulumi AWS Cloud Control Provider with the Pulumi AWS Provider

> Let’s walk through an example of using Pulumi AWS Cloud Control Provider alongside the [standard AWS Provider]. Here, we can see how the new AWS S3 Object Lambda feature can be used via the AWS Cloud Control provider, with access to the full API defined by the S3 team at AWS,

Reviewer 2: The example below doesn't appear to use AWSCC at all?  And doesn't do what the prose above says?

```typescript
import * as pulumi from "@Pulumi Service (isabel)/pulumi";
import * as aws from "@Pulumi Service (isabel)/aws";
import * as awsx from "@Pulumi Service (isabel)/aws-native";

// Create an S3 bucket using the AWS provider
const bucket = new aws.s3.Bucket("myBucket");

// Define the Lambda function code
const lambdaCode = `
exports.handler = async (event) => {
    console.log("Processing new S3 object:", event.Records[0].s3.object.key);
    // Add your processing logic here
};
`;

// Create the AWS Lambda function using the AWS Cloud Control provider
const lambdaFunction = new awsx.lambda.Function("myLambdaFunction", {
    functionName: "my-lambda-function",
    runtime: "nodejs14.x",
    handler: "index.handler",
    code: new pulumi.asset.StringAsset(lambdaCode),
    environment: {
        variables: {

>             BUCKET_NAME: bucket.bucket,

Reviewer 2: This doesn't seem to be used in the code?

export const lambdaFunctionArn = lambdaFunction.arn;
export const s3BucketName = bucket.bucket;
```

## Leveraging AWS Cloud Control Provider for Advanced WAFv2 Configurations

[The Cloud Control Provider] offers greater flexibility for handling complex configurations that may be challenging or impossible with the [standard AWS Provider]. For example, when configuring WAFv2, you can define arbitrary nested rules, which enables more advanced and customized security logic. With the Cloud Control Provider, you can compose these rules with reusable building blocks, creating configurations that are more modular and scalable. This level of granularity allows for more precise control over web traffic filtering, such as combining multiple rule sets, applying conditions across different layers of the request, and creating highly tailored security policies. This flexibility is particularly useful for organizations with complex security requirements that need to go beyond what the standard AWS Provider can offer.

For example, this configuration involves six levels of nesting rules but can be composed from reusable building blocks:

```typescript
import * as pulumi from "@pulumi/pulumi";

> import * as aws_native from "@pulumi/aws-native";

Reviewer 2: Let's make this:

```suggestion
import * as awscc from "@pulumi/aws-native";
```

And then update references to it?

type RuleGroupStatement = aws_native.types.input.wafv2.RuleGroupStatementArgs;

// Create an AWS WAFv2 IP Set
const exampleIPSet = new aws_native.wafv2.IpSet("exampleIPSet", {
  addresses: ["1.2.3.4/32", "5.6.7.8/32"],
  ipAddressVersion: "IPV4",
  scope: "REGIONAL",
});

const ipMatch: RuleGroupStatement = {
  ipSetReferenceStatement: {
	arn: exampleIPSet.arn,
  },
};

const testURIMatch: RuleGroupStatement = {
  byteMatchStatement: {
	searchString: "/test",
	fieldToMatch: {
  	uriPath: {},
	},
	textTransformations: [
  	{
    	priority: 0,

>     	type: "NONE",

Reviewer 2: There's some formatting that appears off here and elsewhere.

    	  matchNot(
      	  matchAny([
        	testURIMatch,
        	matchAll([
          	  internalLabelMatch,
          	  matchNot(matchAll([ipMatch, hostMatch])),
        	]),
      	  ]),
    	  ),
  	]),

  	visibilityConfig: {
    	cloudWatchMetricsEnabled: true,
    	metricName: "friendly-rule-metric-name",
    	sampledRequestsEnabled: true,
  	},
	},
  ],
  scope: "REGIONAL",
  visibilityConfig: {
	cloudWatchMetricsEnabled: true,
	metricName: "friendly-metric-name",
	sampledRequestsEnabled: true,
  },
});

// Create an AWS WAFv2 WebACL
const exampleWebACL = new aws_native.wafv2.WebAcl("exampleWebACL", {
  defaultAction: { allow: {} },
  rules: [
	{
  	name: "example-rule-1",
  	overrideAction: { count: {} },
  	priority: 1,
  	statement: {
    	ruleGroupReferenceStatement: {
      	arn: exampleRuleGroup.arn,
    	},
  	},
  	visibilityConfig: {
    	cloudWatchMetricsEnabled: true,
    	metricName: "friendly-rule-metric-name",
    	sampledRequestsEnabled: true,
  	},
	},
  ],
  scope: "REGIONAL",
  visibilityConfig: {
	cloudWatchMetricsEnabled: true,
	metricName: "friendly-metric-name",
	sampledRequestsEnabled: true,
  },
});

```

## Conclusion

> The [AWS Cloud Control Provider] for Pulumi is a major step forward in delivering faster, more flexible access to AWS services. By closely collaborating with AWS, we’ve created a provider that enables Pulumi users to leverage the latest AWS features as soon as they are released - without waiting for upstream provider changes to arrive in the standard Pulumi AWS Provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [AWS Cloud Control Provider] for Pulumi is a major step forward in fully and faithfully supporting the AWS Cloud Control API and its ecosystem in Pulumi. By closely collaborating with AWS, we’ve created a provider that enables Pulumi users to leverage the latest AWS features as soon as they are released - without waiting for upstream provider changes to arrive in the standard Pulumi AWS Provider.
```

---
title: "Announcing the General Availability of Pulumi’s AWS Cloud Control Provider (formerly AWS Native) "
allow_long_title: true

> date: 2024-04-25T09:00:00-07:00

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
date: 2024-10-01T09:00:00-07:00
```
